---
title:  "Proofs"
date:   2022-03-17 00:00:00 +0000
categories: mathematics proofs
---

Proofs

# Table of contents


# Proof

Mathematics its own notion of “proof”. In mathematics, a proof is a verification of
a proposition by a chain of logical deductions from a base set of axioms.

## Propositions

A proposition is a statement that is either true or false.

Predicate, which is a proposition whose truth depends on the value of one or more variables.
```
P(n) ::= “n is a perfect square”;
```

The symbols ∀ (“for all”) and ∃ (“there exists”) are called *quantifiers*.

Implication, a proposition of the form P ⇒ Q.

## Axioms

Euclid's axiom-and-proof method is now called the axiomatic method.

Propositions that are simply accepted as true are called axioms.
Important true propositions are called theorems.
Lemma is preliminary proposition useful for proving a later propositions.
Corollary is a proposition that follows just in few logical steps from a theorem.

There's not clear what you can take as an axiom, so a good general guidance to be up front about what you're assuming.

### Logical Deductions

Logical deductions, or inference rules, are used to prove new propositions using
previously proved ones.
Modus ponens (MP) can be summarized as "P implies Q. P is true. Therefore, Q must also be true.".
The key requirement for inference rule that it should sound.

Modus ponens should be written as ratio, when statement above the line is called antecedents is proved to be true then
the statement below the line conclusion or consequent to be also true.

### Patterns of proofs

In principle, a proof can be any sequence of logical deductions from axioms and
previously proved statements that concludes with the proposition in question.

## Proving an Implication

“If P, then Q” are called implications. There're a couple of standard methods for proving an implication. 

Couple of points:
* You’ll often need to do some scratchwork while you’re trying to figure out the logical steps of a proof.
* Proofs typically begin with the word “Proof” and end with some sort of delimiter like ⇤ or “QED.” T

### Method #1
In order to prove that P IMPLIES Q:
1. Write, “Assume P.”
2. Show that Q logically follows.

### Method #2 - Prove the Contrapositive

An implication (“P IMPLIES Q”) is logically equivalent to its contrapositive
NOT(Q) IMPLIES NOT(P):

1. Write, “We prove the contrapositive:” and then state the contrapositive.
2. Proceed as in Method #1.

## Proving an “If and Only If”

### 1.6.1 Method #1: Prove Each Statement Implies the Other

The statement “P IFF Q” is equivalent to the two statements “P IMPLIES Q” and
“Q IMPLIES P.” So you can prove an “iff” by proving two implications:
1. Write, “We prove P implies Q and vice-versa.”
2. Write, “First, we show P implies Q.” Do this by one of the methods in
   Section 1.5.
3. Write, “Now, we show Q implies P.” Again, do this by one of the methods
   in Section 1.5.

### 1.6.2 Method #2: Construct a Chain of Iffs

In order to prove that P is true iff Q is true:
1. Write, “We construct a chain of if-and-only-if implications.”
2. Prove P is equivalent to a second statement which is equivalent to a third
   statement and so forth until you reach Q.

## Proof by Cases



# Links
* [Zermelo–Fraenkel set theory](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zermelo%E2%80%93Fraenkel_set_theory)
* [Modus ponens](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Modus_ponens)

